OK so now we're going to talk about drafts and we're not going to spend spend a lot of time with refs.
And if you ask why it's because you should not use refs.
Well no because I say it it's because re-act gives you the chance to use them but advised not to do
it.
So ref it's kind of a link or reference we can attach to an element and then we can use this link or
reference to do things in the dorm directly.
And that is the key word.
Doing things in the dorm with the dorm directly with ref.
You can bypass react and interact with them.
So you're not going to be using the state or whatever react it's providing you just go directly to the
norm and do it.
And if you think about it it kind of makes sense why bother in using react.
If you're going to just interact with the DOM yourself.
Yeah.
Makes sense.
So it's kind of hard to explain with words.
I'm just going to show you a dumb example so you can get the idea.
I have a component right here an app component and I have a state.
This state has a title and a color.
Now then inside the Render I have a style Barville and the color is going to be this that state that
color is going to be blue.
And when the application renders the title it's going to have the style which is blue and the text that
it's going to be this that state that data change with graphs.
OK.
And then I get I could have just dealt with a function that it's going to change the text whenever i
just click on change color is going to go to this change text function and it's going to change the
state from red.
I'm sorry from blue to red.
So since we are using right here the state is going to change it to red.
OK that's good.
That's working so we are changing the color using state we're using react to change the state of this
style.
So that's good.
That's what re-act advise us to do.
We have a different way to do it and we can use refs are going to go right here to this component right
here to this 8:04 sorry it's elements not component is going to be rough.
And that's the way we just create create an instance of a ref going to call and do ref and I need to
assign a name just like an ID or a class.
And what I'm gonna do I'm just going to put my title into something simple.
All right.
Now what we can do instead of using the state to change the color.
Going to come in this state and I'm going to go right here right here whenever we have ref we're making
a reference to this.
That ref is going to be like this not props with the props.
But in this case it's going to be this component and ref.
So I'm going to say this that ref.
And we have access to this element so we can do things directly then have two refs o refs plural.
We need to make reference to the name of the ref which is going to be my title and then we can do pretty
much whatever we want.
I'm just going to change the style.
It's going to be style and then color and this one again it's going to be called it's going to be a
red color and this is just vanilla jazz.
It's not sex or whatever.
It's just mutating the color directly.
So if I just reload the application and click and change color we get the same result.
So it's working but we are changing the color directly through graphs.
And again we shouldn't use this as it is.
Let me just show you the documentation.
And for here you have a lot of information about graphs and right here you get don't you.
You know we use refs and right here the top at the very beginning is going to tell you the typical Riak
dataflow prompts are the only way the only way that parent components interact with children.
So pretty much saying you ok the way we wanted you to do it for us.
One you to do it it's going to be using props and not the refs.
So again at the end is going to say re-act provides an escape hatch.
So again you know you shouldn't use it but if you really really really need need need to use it you
need to use this DS refs.
Well you can and right here is going to give you some options where the use of refs is going to be applicable.
It's going to be managing focus or tech selection media playback and triggering in imperative animations
and then just interacting with third party libraries.
And this is just maybe Jay Querrey if you want to interact with Jay Querrey and mutated Dohm directly
with Jacqui.
Well you can do it.
OK.
Again you can use it but you're shooting it for all.
You should always use it.
OK that's enough.
Let's go to the next topic.
It's going to be control and uncontrolled and we're going to be talking a little bit about refs again.